bottom line if you're going to engage
your user contextually and drive them to
the next feature at the right time
you're going to see increase in adoption
we capture every event
keysight px is a all about product
experience and the integration between
customer success and
product how can your product help them
be better at their job
people want to know right away why
they're here and what they need to do
you have to compete with the user
experience of all of the
consumer products that are out there i
want to look at
features and modules i really care about
the early majority will give you five
minutes to understand what the app does
we're gonna deliver you more analytics
so important for morale for people to
know why they're building the thing that
they're building
we want to give you more than just page
views and events happy to be here i'll
present myself first my name is mickey
alone
i'm the ceo and co-founder of gainsight
px a product experience platform
uh previously also led the mercado
global development team
and also founded a company that mastered
the website experience
and last i would say co-author of
mastering product experience that book
is available to download at gamesite.com
and with me i have sierra thanks mickey
um so i am coming to you from san
francisco
and uh vp of product design
currently at game site and uh held some
product roles here
worked and sas my whole career box
better work salesforce
love building amazing customer
experiences
so that's what i'll be covering today
awesome so in the session today we're
gonna talk about product like growth
define what
particular growth is and what is
becoming
why it is becoming a top priority for
companies at
any scale from early stage startups to
an enterprise
we also cover cross-functional
responsibilities about product-led
growth and how you can really start
and we're gonna finish with the really
best practices to help you deliver
exceptional uh product experience
through a trial experience that cr is
gonna cover
so let's dive in um first what is
product led growth
so first and foremost it's a product
it's a go to market strategy
really using your product as a vehicle
for
conversion customer acquisition adoption
and growth and really using your product
to deliver these
elements and what the main focus here is
really
connecting your go to market strategy
with your product execution
due to a couple of factors you're gonna
discuss but this
but definitely this is really a go to
market notion
that uh bringing these two functions
together
and really in particular strategy if you
look at the customer
journey is really putting the product at
the forefront of that customer journey
if you think about that
customers today interact with your
product throughout the entire
life cycle the two teams that are
leading the productive growth effort
although it's a relevant to the entire
customer journey
i would say it's a growth marketing that
start utilizing the product as a
customer acquisition tool
from top of funnel optimizing the
customer acquisition
cost and also the marketing return on
investment so marketing is becoming uh
designed as performance marketing
driving signups
nurturing top of funnel users
to the sign ups and then product growth
team
which is a new team evolving handles the
product qualified leads and we're going
to define
what is for the qualified leads
they will their role is really to
deliver exceptional experience
throughout the trial
to make sure that these users are uh
getting to intrinsic value experiencing
intrinsic value with their uh
product and their role is really to
accelerate time to value throughout the
customer
life cycle
so really why product like growth is
disrupting the software industry so
dramatically
number one we see that every year
millions millions of software products
are being produced it's
relatively easy to build and launch
new products we have a lot of factors
for that
cloud computing open source all that
stuff it's
making very easy to deliver and build
new products
the real challenge is really with
scaling growth
and what we're seeing in the market is
companies are trying companies are
trying to
outperform each other through just
marketing spend
uh in other words outspend each other
and still it's very very
difficult and the there's a diminishing
return in your marketing effort if
you're just
trying to uh use that the old way so
growth is becoming the big challenge and
product-led growth is a new way to
optimize
for uh your marketing effort but also
delivering better customer experience
and we are seeing you know the companies
new companies out of nowhere
scaling very very quickly using this
strategy and disrupting the
existing enterprise that enterprises
actually in this market
there's also evolving customer
expectation we know that b2b buyer is
becoming
assuming a btc type of experience they
prefer to try before they
they buy um the end user is becoming
a decision maker it's no longer a
top-down uh
approach at the end of the day at the
end of the day your product is helping
them achieve
a goal and they're going to basically
vote for
or against your product uh so ease of
use time to value is what they're going
to focus on in the first line of product
that's what you want to focus on when
you
really transition to quality growth um
and then also
we noticed that uh the product
experience is associated with the brand
experience so
um if you have a investment in your
brand but the product delivers a
bad experience they're gonna influence
the your employees decision your
customers decisions so product is
becoming
the experienced channel for your
customers and that's part of the
customer expectation and part of the
consumerization of
sas um also there's unbeatable unit of
economics if you think about it customer
acquisition cost and lifetime value can
be super optimized if i as a user as a
buyer
can experience your product and
understand how it solves my
uh challenging problem that allows me to
really take a quicker decision
and i can accelerate that decision and
accelerate your customer acquisition
also the cost of opportunity when
marketing
basically drives uh leads and
opportunities to your funnel
uh normally in classic b2b it can be few
months until
anyone can really measure that
effectiveness with product leg growth
what you're achieving is really the
ability to
narrow that time frame and even turn
that into weeks or from
sign up to uh experiencing value and
taking a decision
um and that's really can optimize your
marketing spend
are we also seeing a dollar net
retention
uh with a better organic expansion when
i'm you're allowing to your customers to
sign up
and add other users and self-provision
you're unlocking that potential and you
want to look at that you're going to see
that
expansion is much much cheaper than the
first
deal or first land um so that also
drives a growth rate you're able to do
if you're if your growth always depends
on sales processes is you're going to be
bounded if you're allowing
your product to to have a free sign up
and you can
master any type of trials you can unlock
that
growth potential and allow customers to
experience value
and also have more predictable uh churn
rate
because you're gonna see and measure uh
a couple of things with your product you
can measure
valuable actions and you can also
collect some sentiments so you can
better understand if your product is
delivering value and if your product is
delivering value
um churn and growth are going to be much
more predictable
so if you think about it really in the
age of the customer
much of the customer experience happened
within the product if you look at the
customer life cycle
from acquisition adoption retention and
growth your customers interacting with
your product so you should treat the
product
as an experienced channel and identify
which customers
needs a push to move them forward to the
next level
and the next experience next value or
which customers are at risk
um and when you look at cross-functional
uh responsibilities
this is where marketing products success
and sales can really look at usage data
and user sentiment to understand that
through the interaction the customer is
doing with your uh
product at gainsight
we've built a framework again product
like growth
it's kind of looking at a customer
centric view
at different stages of customer
experiences and
from onboarding to growth we have
different product plays you can
implement
uh in this session we're going to cover
the trial experience
and with some best practices around that
so trial experiences tend to be part of
the initial interaction with your
customer so in this session we're going
to cover the
art and science and we're going to just
dive into that best practices
so looking at trial experience with
normally is the first step towards
product like growth you want to
really unlock the growth potential so
the goal is really to integrate your
trial experience with your overall go to
market strategy you want to make sure
that the marketing is driving you the
right type of leads the product
qualified leads
and then also within the trial you want
to make sure that
you're able to deliver intrinsic value
of your product so customers understand
how that pain point they're learned
about for marketing is now translated to
a product feature
that can help them solve that uh
challenge and then also
obviously generating sales opportunities
especially now when we are
all working remote and sales are
looking for more opportunities your
product can become that channel so
that's the trial goals
and we want to define a product qualify
lead um
what we can see is basically that it's a
combination of
three elements one is the icp
the ideal customer profile you want to
make sure that when you're
driving the right sign-ups it's the
right size of company it's the right
size of
in thermographics and technographics
sometimes you have competitive landscape
you also want to map the objectives and
outcomes uh so you really understand if
they're
if you drive this the right person to
the product and
you're seeing that there came uh for the
right objective and outcome you can
drive them towards that
and looking at the product usage the
combination kind of
build the product qualify leads and you
can really build a score
around that and when you pass these
quarter qualified leads to sales
or do some automation around that you'll
be able to predict what's going to
look like a successful trial versus
what's going to be
looking at as a less successful trial
one of the elements is really also
looking at pricing and packaging so you
want to make sure that
you have the right balance between tech
touch and high touch if your product
is price based is going to be very high
most likely it's going to be high touch
you want to have a version of your
product that is
actually lower cost and we're seeing in
the market for example costs around 10
to 15
k a year kind of qualifies to a tech
touch
approach which is kind of one too many
type of uh
nurturing you can you can do to your
trial so pricing is part of the uh
go to market and part of what growth
strategy
keep it simple and transparent for
customers if you're addressing the the
lower end of the market
associate usage and value a today the
buyer is way more advanced they want to
understand exactly what the difference
is
um and and really optimize for land and
expand it's really the the new way to
sell today
especially if you go up market is to
quickly have a land
deal and then expand so you can really
build that trust with your customer
and and allow them to really pay as as
they use as they go
uh there's a couple of trial strategies
for gating strategies
uh we're seeing in the market for
example three main elements one is
time based which is very very popular
you're trying to get
into a momentum with your customer the
other uh
which is more common in a more developer
oriented solution
is value based as soon as they are able
to
build something launch something launch
a campaign that's where the trial
actually ends
and there's the classic freemium model
that is uh free
and has limited features which is the
third element
things to watch for when you really
decide about trial
gating and you can really experiment
with that is really uh
one number one is how can your product
really deliver meaningful results
during a trial or should you kind of
funnel them in towards a
a sandbox and things like that um i
would
also again strike the balance between
enough value and price
and last is really the addressing the
market segment
uh product like growth is fantastic but
if you're if you're
addressing an enterprise market segment
when they have a lot of uh
question integration security question
compliance
this is where you're going to have a
balance between the tech touch
when you're allowing to experience the
product but you're allowing them to
reach out to you as soon as they need to
so really
addressing that market segment is
important from product management
perspective is really align your product
with your go to market strategy we want
to create that
interlock between products and uh your
go to market so really focusing on the
first smile of product prioritizing for
that experience because right now
uh your product is opening the gates for
signups and it's no longer
uh kind of high touch where customers
are
manually onboarded also always think
about your icp when you design that
that product and you design the next
feature always think about the icp
you're
referring to if it's an enterprise
obviously versus smb
total different assumption and totally
different priorities should be
in place and the most important
part doesn't matter which icp you have
is really to empower your user to
self-serve you want to unlock again
the way they can sign up and invite
other users so you can expand more
efficiently
and allow to deliver more value as you
grow and that type of
experience should be part of your
product from day one
a very common element is really to
reduce
any friction onboarding so frictionless
onboarding means really reducing the
number of
tasks i need to complete before i sign
up and experience value with the product
so
many in the best practices would be
really easy sign up minimal
uh input fields um use more interactive
progressive profiling allow your
customers to experience things before
you
actually have any email activation so
create that relationship with them
from day one measure see what they drop
off and optimize
also looking at retention but at early
stage it's really important to look at
retention this graph is really gonna be
your your day-to-day uh
reports you want to make sure that as
soon as they sign up they're coming back
it measures
how many are coming back and how much
your customer
your product is retaining these
customers you want to
if that line drops to zero you know that
you have a leaky bucket issue they're
signing up and after a few days they're
never coming back you want to solve that
understand reduce uh friction there
you want to also make sure that you know
why are they coming back
if they're coming back for your basic
features it's also also not a
a totally good sign you want to make
sure that they're going to the right set
of features so they can experience
value and you can also measure the days
that they get to that value
and eventually once you get into a
proper place which is this line should
be above 30
or 40 percent you will also start
collecting some
feed user feedback to drive into the
next level
so let's talk about really the cross
functional responsibilities the growth
theme is a new team that is
kind of evolving and the in the b2b
enterprise space
so growth marketing is really optimizing
acquisition channels driving sign-ups
generating product qualified leads they
need to really
tie that pain point to your product and
you want to
hand off that to the growth product
management
normally growth marketing will look at
the funnel that way they're going to
optimize and see which is the best
channel is optimized for the your
customers are they looking for stuff
online
is is it virtual events uh but you want
them to really focus on these key
metrics
pipeline generated customer acquisition
cost um you know
number of weekly signups product
qualified leads this is the hand
the handshake between marketing and
product
and revenue attribution if i look at the
growth
product manager um as opposed to a
traditional product manager
these guys are actually focusing on
product experiences
that drives business metrics it's really
driving
usage of these features that are
delivered by the product
they do tend to have engineering and
designers
and part of their team so they can
really optimize that experience but
their goal is really drive business
metrics
and drive experience in your product
though key kpis for growth product
manager would be really exciting time to
value
measuring that conversion rate all the
time
obviously weekly active user but also
the
uh golden features type of usage so they
want to make sure that they are not just
coming back for the product for the
simple stuff
you're actually are achieving the
desired outcome you're expected from the
product and they can measure that by
product behavior and they can also
really listen to the
user's sentiment as part of that process
but they
own the entire experience from sign up
to
growth and what they really uh think
about
is really how to drive and push users to
the next value within the product
so with that i'm going to pass over to
sierra to speak about birth experience
yeah thanks mickey i know it's only 7 22
here on the west coast but
that tofu acronym was making me really
hungry as a vegetarian
anyway um so i'm going to talk a little
bit more about
the user experience and and sort of how
to appeal to the people that are
actually in your trial so first i want
to talk about
the value gap when somebody comes to a
trial
the trial needs to match up with what
they think it's going to be
uh if it doesn't match up they'll
pretty quickly lose interest and you
know probably not end up following
through
so one thing to think about is
uh many of so in a sort of a consumer
case
there's probably going to be somebody
looking really closely at the end to end
from the maybe
marketing website maybe the marketing
website is the product
but in the sas world often if you're a
product manager
you're not talking to the marketing team
every day and you may not
actually know what's on the marketing
site
that will lead to your trials so make
sure just make sure that the copy that's
there
matches up to what you have within your
app
and then uh you know once they get in
make sure that uh the things that
they're able
to do will drive them to value and we'll
talk about how to get there
so once somebody is in your product
it's really important to provide
specific instructions
one of the things that sometimes we
forget to do is remind people of the
value and why they're there
immediately so for somebody that's
coming into your trial
from your website it's pretty clear that
they probably know why they're there
but one of the biggest uh success
metrics or success indicators of a trial
is
potentially if you're able to bring in
other people from your organization to
that trial so imagine
you're the person in the organization
that was added and maybe you didn't get
to sync up with the person who added you
so you just receive an email
you don't really know what it is but you
click on it and then you go in
and then you have no idea why you're
there
that would really that would be a really
big miss and so
communicating that value right away is
important um
obviously you want that content to be
exciting looking
but as you start to scale this program
and you get more comfortable with um
in-app in-app engagements and in-app
messaging
create create templates create things
that you can reuse over and over again
so you don't have to reinvent the wheel
every time um and then it's important to
think about
how you can do this in such a way that
it doesn't
uh that it doesn't block
the actual experience that they're going
through so one is
um is it right to is it the best idea to
put
in an overlay that will block the
experience in some cases
in some cases it is especially when they
must take an action let's say the trial
is ending
that that could be an approach that you
decide to take but sometimes
sometimes it's not and it's important to
think about how many engagements you
want
each experience and that's something
that we call
throttling but really making sure that
somebody's not bombarded
by a bunch of instructions when they
when they land just the appropriate
amount
and speaking of instructions some people
some people really want guided tours
some do not
but an onboarding checklist is great for
reference
for those who do want a very specific
way of navigating through the app
or to come back to if they have
questions
so this sets the expectation for things
that they need to do
now uh i think that
the image that we're showing here is
probably a good
kind of maximum amount maybe of things
to have in the onboarding
it's important for people to feel
feel a sense of accomplishment and so um
that's why showing the check boxes being
able to
to mark certain activities is complete
or maybe the system knows that they're
completed
is really great um but you don't want to
make the experience
too intimidating and potentially you can
use progressive disclosure
if the user completes certain actions
and maybe they advance to the next level
then you can give them the next level of
onboarding but you know these kind of
trial experiences
are usually they have some kind of a
gate and some kind of a limit so
you know keep it relatively simple with
that
um this is
this is intended to be as mickey
mentioned something that has
um has a broader reach
and and uh doesn't always require a
human to be there to close the
transaction or close the deal so
in that case you may have someone that's
available for a call
or a chat but in many cases you may not
so
make sure that uh that you have
make sure that you give people access to
knowledge your knowledge base articles
faqs let them search for things
don't don't block that just because
they're in the trial experience i think
that's
something that may be carrying over from
you know the
the older days of sas software where
we've seen documentation sites where you
have to be logged in with your user
information to access it
and um i think that in this age of
transparency
of shorter attention spans you really
need to give people what they want when
they want it
all right another and really important
concept is progress so
we want people to feel that they have
accomplished something every time
they come into our our trial and
going back to the point of why are we
here
uh your trial may ha
your product may have varying levels of
complexity you may have a product that
requires some setup
and so for that you you really want to
provide specific instructions
to help them get to help them walk
through that setup you don't want to
if you're an analytics product you don't
want someone to land on an empty
dashboard
and then go try to figure out what to do
and so
getting through maybe some first set of
setup
could be a big accomplishment you also
may decide to pre-populate information
um if it is that use case you might just
you might just have some kind of
dummy information so that they can walk
through and sort of simulate their
experience
but they can also still make
accomplishments especially
like we mentioned in the onboarding
widget even if it is that type of
experience
virality is also really important so
there are many many studies and
statistics out there that say
that let you know that if you have two
three people joining your trial you're
much more likely
to convert and so inviting people
you can see in this in this example um
this
the far left it's from monday and
they show the faces uh and i invited
these two people to my trial
and um i feel like i've accomplished
something
we're part of a team and if i
uh if i leave this experience i'm going
to be leaving my team and letting them
down
because they might be using it um
and so the human connection piece is
pretty important
um and then making sure that
the experience stays pretty consistent
you'll also have opportunities to
highlight feature activation
there are two there are two ways to
really think about this i think in the
context of trials
the first way is when
uh when they come in if they have
accomplished certain steps
and you see that they are getting a
little bit more advanced then
you can expose a lot you know larger
features and
and provide instructions on how to use
them
if somebody expresses interest in a
certain feature
or maybe they are navigating around
having these sort of videos and
contextual discovery
is really important and
uh and also
as you use analytics as you study your
product experience
you hopefully will start to know what
are the couple of things that
people need to do on the first time the
first couple of times within
within 30 days within a certain period
of time in order
to correlate them to a likely
likely conversion or retention
and those are the things that we call
the golden features those are things
that
you might want to stand out a little bit
more than some of the other features
within your app
i think that that's also very important
in the b2b platform we have a ton of
features
and a customer comes in and we need to
realize there's a kind of really
learning curve for the customer
so feature activation allows you to
really highlight the right feature at
the right time
and push that customer to the next level
of value
yeah and we mentioned we mentioned
access to knowledge but
also the ability to give feedback is
really important
the user doesn't necessarily know
whether somebody is there
monitoring their trial or not but often
often they are so
if you give feedback you ask a question
you file a ticket
that will most likely um that will most
likely reach the person
that is on the other end and so don't
think that just because you're in a
trial
that it's only robots behind the scenes
um you know giving that giving that full
communication loop
that you may see in a full deployment of
a product
is a great way to also make people feel
a little bit more committed to your
product
all right um so
another thing to to think about is
testing
so there's a kind of a myth in the b2b
sas world that a b testing
is dangerous and it's not really okay
it's kind of only okay for
consumer products that is false with
caveats
so uh things related to conversion
from the from the uh
let's say customer facing or or
marketing website to the product
absolutely okay to test just like they
would be in a consumer experience
onboarding flows are also okay to test
those are not things that are core to
the experience
copy is copy is also good to test
there's a great example from
one of our larger customers where
there's a trend towards making copy
really
friendly and saying hello and
personalizing it
which in many cases works well but
for this customer they had uh they had a
uh instructional version which is here
are the instructions on what to do right
they just
kind of went into it and then they
tested a different version which said
hello jim then the exact same
instructions
and the users actually perceived the
friendlier version
to be more of a kind of a hello message
or a marketing message and they missed
the
instructional piece of it and that
actually performed lower
so that's why a b testing these kind of
messages is so important because it
differs so much in every context
all right let's talk about the things
that are a little bit more risky to test
test core workflows so
when somebody is in a trial experience
they are learning they have to learn
quickly they
need to feel like what they came for has
been accomplished
and they need to feel like they know the
value they're able to maybe sell that
value
to someone who will be paying for it if
they're
you know if they have a stakeholder like
that
and time anything changes in the core
workflow
you're kind of potentially back to zero
and so that is really dangerous
now i'm not saying that you shouldn't
change the core workflows
ever but ideally you can do that
in a way that it doesn't impact existing
trials
and if you must impact the existing
trial
be very very clear about what those
changes are
it's a best practice and it's
recommended to have in-app guidance
no matter what when you change a feature
but especially when people are learning
they will feel like they might feel like
they did something wrong and they forgot
something and oh this is going to be a
this could be a difficult product to
learn i'm not so sure about it
similarly movement of features um
addition and removal of features just
really things that have to do with the
workflows
it's all about that sense of
accomplishment and uh
you know confidence in the ability to
use the product
yeah we just add like that we saw that
uh very interestingly that the
instructional one
as you're showing a message saying here
learn how to
operate a feature was outperforming the
friendly welcome as hello gym was really
really dramatic
difference i guess users are trying to
learn something they are not trying to
create a chat with you
and also um when you do delivering
completely new features
uh this is where you can really uh use
any kind of feature flag mechanism to a
b
test and expose a new feature see how
many users are actually touching it
before you ga so this is where i think
testing is okay
but you want to be very cautious and
also making sure that you also
keep a control group that you're not
engaging in any way so you can really
scientifically say this is a google i
didn't engage with versus the one i did
and also the uh you can run then later
on in multivariate testing as well
so i think the top uh takeaways from the
sessions
product like growth is really a about go
to market is about connecting your
product experience to the go to market
effort
even if you're a b2b enterprise customer
uh
vendor this is becoming a top priority
next year
um putting the product at the forefront
of customer journey you can really see
the financial implication of that and
also the experience of the customer
the way they experience your brand and
the way they interact with your product
is going to affect the
adoption growth and and scale potential
of your company
also really have what we saw is you have
to really think about adoption and
growth
seriously you want to have people that
own that a to z
if it's still going to be partially on
marketing partially on product it's just
going to
fall between the cracks you want to make
sure that this is
owned by a growth team and as we saw
before
we have like a growth marketing and
growth product management
that they do the handshake and they make
sure that the customer experience
at the center of what they do and you
can start with protocol
qualified leads this is relevant for
trials but again this is relevant for
the entire customer lifetime value
most of the things we realize companies
suffer from churn eventually because
customers did not utilize the full value
of their product
and you want to start making sure that
your product is delivering that value
you want to focus on time to value
usability and also
messaging to these users
and on the user experience side it
absolutely
even it is the most relevant
in these kind of product led growth
experiences
people need to always be reminded what
is the value
why are they there they need to have
specific instructions so that they can
find success
with every touch point interaction in
your app
and they need easy access to knowledge
so that they can feel
accomplished and confident in
the future use of your product
you